Work back in this lesson we're going to use that listener select.
So for this we need an input and this is just going to be a regular input text and give it a value.
So this is some dummy text and also going to a copy and some of this javascript course as well.
So we've got lots of tax to work with.
So next we're just going to give it an ID.
And this is just going to be my t.
So now what I want to do is I want to set an event listener and I want to use the listener select.
And once that gets triggered then I want to fire off a function.
So go ahead create a brand new function called my function and the listener is select.
So I want you to do now pause the video grab this element and add an event listener to it and then create
a function that gets triggered when the user selects some of the text.
So let me show you the solution to that so we can use document and we can use get element by id and
simply add in my t there.
And then here let's add that Lessner So we're going to do this all on one line and the listener that
we want to use is select and then we're just going to have a function we'll call it my fun.
So now Next let's set up a function and we're going to set up my fun function.
And this is where I'm going to make something happen and we'll console log.
Now just to make sure that everything is working properly and I can clean this one up a little bit.
So now go back and try it out and let's grab some of this text here.
So we see as we're grabbing the text it's firing off.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to figure out actually what's been selected.
So let's will console directory.
So because we can actually figure out from the event so do event target.
Or it could do this as well.
And so let's save that and will refresh it and once we grab some of this information we can go down
here and we can see that this particular one is going to have some value.
So right down at the end we've got selection's start and selection.
And so this value will change and notice that this is the character that we're starting and stopping.
So if we start out with the T H I S space I s space.
So this is the ninth character.
So if we look at it the same way and the strings work the same way as arrays and we are going to look
more at strings later on.
But we know that we're able to grab that information that's selected and we have our starting point
and our completing point.
So basically we get that information and now we can make use of it by using the object information here
from the target and putting that in to our result.
And there's a function that's built in to Javascript.
So let's set up a variable.
I'm going to call it result
and actually first of all let's grab that string.
So it grabs the string selection.
So because we want to grab that whole string value.
So you know set up a string as we are and we're going to basically grab that event target.
And I want to grab the target value.
So I'm grabbing that entire string value into string.
And then what I want to do is I want to take from string and we've got a method called sub string and
what basically that does is that allows us to take a piece of the string so we can take a piece of these
and return that into result and we actually know the starting point and the ending point of that selection.
So we can simply grab that and output it.
So let's do that now where we've got that event target.
So we can shorten this as well.
So I'm going to just do variable easy and that will be event target so that we don't have a really long
statement here and just get rid of that because we no longer need the console and the values that we're
looking at so it's easy and the value that we're looking at is selection.
Start So Aleck's selection
start and then we comma separated.
And we have e and selection.
And so we've got our selection start and now it's two selection.
And so basically the result.
So this console log what the result and just make sure that we're grabbing it properly.
So go back and refreshed.
And now let's grab some of this text and we can see that.
Now whatever we're grabbed that we're putting here within the con..
So the next step is to actually output it within this output area.
So we want you to do now pause the video and output the result into our element with the ID output.
Now I'll show you the solution for that.
So this is documents so it doesn't this multiple times before get element by id and the element that
we wanted to grab is output and so do the inner tacks or enraged him.
And we're just going to set it equal to result.
So let's try that out now and let's refresh now.
Every time we grab some of that text we can see that it actually is going to get output there.
So whatever we're grabbing here we're outputting just above there within that output area.
So what I want you to do try to do it for yourself and open that up and create some different inputs
and have different values here and different select values and then have them output somewhere else
directly within your HMO of your web page.
So try it for yourself and see what you can make happen using the select event listener.